was popper a skeptic popper wasn't a
skeptic not in the philosophical sense
of the word it was quite the opposite
skeptics believe in the justified true
belief theory of knowledge they rightly
conclude one can never be absolutely
certain about knowledge claims but then
they wrongly conclude that this means
knowledge isn't possible now popper was
a critic of this idea he rejected it
completely he threw it away root and
branch and started from the ground up
the idea here that he had was the
divorced knowledge from it being about
certainties or justified truth instead
knowledge is possible because there is
an objective difference between
knowledge claims none of them are final
absolutes but in almost all cases always
where there are two or more competing
claims one of them is better than the
others the process of criticism rules
out all but one of the ideas ideally the
one that survives we say I know that
that claim comes to be called a part of
our knowledge of the world but it's
always revisable always improvable
popper wasn't a skeptic about knowledge
he was a critic and these are quite
different things one assumes knowledge
is not possible because certainty isn't
or the other says almost exactly the
opposite the pursuit of knowledge and
its objective growth and the improvement
is only possible because certainty is
not so to unpack this if we were able to
have the final certain word on anything
then this would mean we'd have direct
access to the final certain truth and
this would mean the quest for knowledge
would stop we just tap into that
ultimate source of truth and that would
be that game over would never improve
anything because we'd have the final
complete answer and all the answers
actually so the pursuit of knowledge
would stop happily the pursuit of
knowledge isn't like this at all
knowledge is hard-won and it comes to us
with much misconception almost all we
know contains misconception and we can
never be sure which is misconception and
which is true but that doesn't matter as
long as our process of error correction
keeps on sifting the misconceptions from
the kernels of truth so that we make
progress this is all we need to be able
to say we are creating knowledge or that
we are learning and making objective
progress we can't know
we've got the final truth ever but what
we can know is that our process of
criticism experimental falsification or
other kinds of refutation makes the
ideas that survived this process
objectively better than the ideas that
do not the purpose of science is to
correct our knowledge of physical
reality here we see improvements most
obviously perhaps objective progress
seems to be made all the time new
medical discoveries improve their health
and lengthen our lives and cure disease
that was previously a death sentence
each new iPhone is better than last one
one great series overturned by another
even better theory new explanations
replace old ones the new ones are not
certainly true they're just closer to
these sont illogical truth then its
rivals our Karl Popper called this very
selamat ood this means closer to truth
whereby truth we mean the ontological
truth